1. Artificial Neural Network Based Identification of Multi-Operating-Point  Impedance Model
- Black-box impedance model facilitate the analysis of inverter-grid interactions
- Impedance model of VSI is dependent on its operating point and can have different profiles when the operating point is changed

A- Intro
- in practical applications, the impedance model of VSI can be changed with the operating point of the system, due to the nonlinear control dynamics of VSIs, e.g., the phase-locked loop (PLL), the power control, and the dc-link voltage control loops.
- A recurrent neural network (RNNs) based impedance measurement technique is reported for the power electronic systems [7], where the impedance is calculated by the trained RNN. Nevertheless, this method can only generate the impedance at a specific operating point.
- The artificial neural network (ANN) provides a powerful nonlinear modeling method, which can be used to generate the complex nonlinear model by feeding the data.


2. Physics-Informed Neural Network Based Online  Impedance Identification of Voltage  Source Converters
However, since the limited impedance data amount in online measurement, the existing impedance identification methods cannot accurately capture characteristics of the impedance model in various operating scenarios with the changing profiles of renewables and loads.


3.
The lack of standardisation of  IBRs leads vendors to treat their control algorithms as commercial secrets and they are willing to disclose only black-box models that give input-output relationships but no internal details.
This impedance ZS(s) describes the way in  which the output voltage changes for changes in output current.

The characteristics of the impedance of an IBR is basically shaped by its hardware (resistance, inductance and capacitance) and software (control loop parameters). There are many approaches to  acquiring impedance model expressions of IBRs. A common approach is to use an analytical method,  such as traditional linearisation [50, 51], harmonic linearisation [39, 52], or through equivalent circuit manipulation (known as an impedance circuit model) [53]. Such methods use parameter values  of the IBR to calculate the transfer function of the impedance model. Taking an impedance (rather  than admittance) circuit model as an example, using the principles of equivalent-circuit formation  (applications of Ohm’s Law, Superposition Theorem, Th ́evenin’s or Norton’s equivalent circuits), the  control loops of an inverter can be visualised as discrete circuit elements in an impedance circuit, with values calculated from the control parameters.

The analytical method is limited in applicability to cases where full knowledge of the design of the  IBR is available, thus the its use is dependent on the cooperation of vendors and is not fully available  to the SO by default. Besides this, an impedance model is essentially a small-signal model established upon steady state and so the model would vary according to the operating point of the system  and the operating point of a power systems is expected to vary widely. The relationship between  an impedance model and the operating point is yet not fully understood. Furthermore, because of  the difference between analytical equations based on simplifying assumptions and detailed hardware  implementations, the analytical impedance models cannot completely describe the behavior of a real  IBR. An alternative approach to acquire impedance models is the measurement-based method which  opens promising opportunities for impedance models [54, 55]. A measurement-based model is found  from a set of real rather than notional voltage or current perturbations applied to an IBR at a range  of frequencies and the corresponding measured responses. Fig. 1.6 [56] shows the positive-sequence  impedance spectra of a 2 MVA BESS inverter measured by National Renewable Energy Laboratory  (NREL) when the BESS inverter was operated in grid-following and grid-forming control modes.  This demonstrates measurement-based impedance spectra can be obtained on power system apparatus without knowing any design details and can thus help either vendors to assess their own modelling  or help SOs to acquire independent models.  From a measured spectrum, a corresponding transfer function can be obtained using the vector fitting  technique [57]. Impedance measurement can be fulfilled online [58,59] and thus can be used as a datadriven approach for stability assessment [60]. A very recent research work [61] combines an artificial  neural network method with the impedance measurement method to identify the model under various operating points which is said to offer more reliable results in varying conditions. Fig. 1.7 [61] shows  the admittance spectrum of a grid-following inverter equipped with phase-locked loop (PLL) working  at different operating points. It can be noticed that the admittance spectrum of an inverter can vary  according to the changes of its output current. This means that a single spectrum at one operating  point is sometimes not sufficient to describe all the dynamic characteristics of the inverter, and online  measurement is needed to cover different situations. Still, as a matter of fact, measurement error  caused by noise is not yet fully analysed, so the choice of perturbation amplitude to apply rests on the  experience of researchers rather than analysis.


. It can be seen that it is difficult to  re-structure such system into a source-side and a load-side, meaning GNC-based analysis is hard to  apply in meshed networks like power systems. This is an important factor obstructing the application  of impedance models in power systems. As an alternative, recent research has turned  to impedance models which can represent the whole network, referred as networked impedance models [47, 76–79].

4. Impedance Methods for Analyzing the Stability Impacts of Inverter-Based Resources
The impedance responses required for stability analysis can be obtained by performing either real measurements or a frequency sweep on EMT simulation models. Modelbased impedance estimation, however, is possible only when high-fidelity black-box, “real-code” EMT models are provided by vendors.